README.md, before:

Sonar-grammar
=============

SonarQube Grammar Plugin to provide spell checking of source code. 

Status
------

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/webdizz/sonar-grammar.png?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/webdizz/sonar-grammar)
[![Bitdeli Badge](https://d2weczhvl823v0.cloudfront.net/webdizz/sonar-grammar/trend.png)](https://bitdeli.com/free "Bitdeli Badge")

Environment requirements:
-------------------------
1. [Java](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html) 1.7
2. [Maven](https://maven.apache.org/)
3. [SonarQube](http://www.sonarqube.org/) (current version 5.1)

Development Set Up:
-------------------
1. Download [SonarQube](http://www.sonarqube.org/) (current version 5.1) from  [SonarQube homepage](http://www.sonarqube.org/downloads/)
2. Unpack and go to **sonarqube-5.1/conf** folder
3. Enable the development mode on server : add ```bash sonar.dev=true``` to **sonar.properties** . For Windows machines use ```sonar.dev=true```.
4. Go to folder **sonarqube-5.1/bin**. Select you current OS and run [SonarQube](http://www.sonarqube.org/) (can be ".bat" or ".sh" file)
5. In browser go to - [http://localhost:9000/](http://localhost:9000/)
6. Login in [SonarQube](http://www.sonarqube.org/) as Administrator (login - **admin**, password - **admin**)
7. On [SonarQube](http://www.sonarqube.org/) page top menu go to the "Quality Profiles". You need to make sure that "Sonar way " stands as the default

Development and run:
------------
1. Make some code changes
2. **Build** and **install** the plugin : ```bash mvn package org.codehaus.sonar:sonar-dev-maven-plugin::upload -DsonarHome={sonarqube-5.1} -DsonarUrl=http://localhost:9000``` . Use correct location of Sonarqube for the parameter -DsonarHome, for example ```-DsonarHome=d:\Sonar5.1```
3. Restart [SonarQube](http://www.sonarqube.org/)
4. Change on [SonarQube](http://www.sonarqube.org/) page top menu "Quality Profiles" ```Sonar Grammar Profile``` to default. 
5. To perform grammar analysis go to the project that you want to test and write ```bash mvn sonar:sonar``` command (for Windows machines use ```mvn sonar:sonar```), for debug use ```bash mvnDebug sonar:sonar``` command (by default debug port is **8000**)
6. After that you can see results on [http://localhost:9000/dashboard/](http://localhost:9000/dashboard/) or follow the link that will be found in the bottom of command line output

Amend dictionary:
-----------------
There is built in dictionary, however to add additional words here is a bash script to rearrange dictionary.
To do this - append new word to **src/main/resources/dict/english.0**, run **reprocess_dict.sh** after that copy **src/main/resources/dict/english.1** with new word and in correct format to **src/main/resources/dict/english.0**.

Commit message:

Using hamcrest lib for testing. Update manual  with describe of edit manual dictionary

README.md, after:

Sonar-grammar
=============

SonarQube Grammar Plugin to provide spell checking of source code. 

Status
------

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/webdizz/sonar-grammar.png?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/webdizz/sonar-grammar)
[![Bitdeli Badge](https://d2weczhvl823v0.cloudfront.net/webdizz/sonar-grammar/trend.png)](https://bitdeli.com/free "Bitdeli Badge")

Environment requirements:
-------------------------
1. [Java](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html) 1.7
2. [Maven](https://maven.apache.org/)
3. [SonarQube](http://www.sonarqube.org/) (current version 5.1)

Development Set Up:
-------------------
1. Download [SonarQube](http://www.sonarqube.org/) (current version 5.1) from  [SonarQube homepage](http://www.sonarqube.org/downloads/)
2. Unpack and go to **sonarqube-5.1/conf** folder
3. Enable the development mode on server : add ```bash sonar.dev=true``` to **sonar.properties** . For Windows machines use ```sonar.dev=true```.
4. Go to folder **sonarqube-5.1/bin**. Select you current OS and run [SonarQube](http://www.sonarqube.org/) (can be ".bat" or ".sh" file)
5. In browser go to - [http://localhost:9000/](http://localhost:9000/)
6. Login in [SonarQube](http://www.sonarqube.org/) as Administrator (login - **admin**, password - **admin**)
7. On [SonarQube](http://www.sonarqube.org/) page top menu go to the "Quality Profiles". You need to make sure that "Sonar way " stands as the default

Development and run:
------------
1. Make some code changes
2. **Build** and **install** the plugin : ```bash mvn package org.codehaus.sonar:sonar-dev-maven-plugin::upload -DsonarHome={sonarqube-5.1} -DsonarUrl=http://localhost:9000``` . Use correct location of Sonarqube for the parameter -DsonarHome, for example ```-DsonarHome=d:\Sonar5.1```
3. Restart [SonarQube](http://www.sonarqube.org/)
4. Change on [SonarQube](http://www.sonarqube.org/) page top menu "Quality Profiles" ```Sonar Grammar Profile``` to default. 
5. To perform grammar analysis go to the project that you want to test and write ```bash mvn sonar:sonar``` command (for Windows machines use ```mvn sonar:sonar```), for debug use ```bash mvnDebug sonar:sonar``` command (by default debug port is **8000**)
6. After that you can see results on [http://localhost:9000/dashboard/](http://localhost:9000/dashboard/) or follow the link that will be found in the bottom of command line output

Add word/amend custom dictionary:
-----------------
You can add word to custom dictionary, so next checks cannot select this word as an issue.

1. Login to sonar with **admin rights**.
2. Go to issue list. At the end of action pane click **More->Add to Dictionary**.
3. Word will be added to dictionary.

You also can directly edit custom dictionary in Grammar Plugin Settings:

1. Login to sonar with **admin rights**.
2. Go to **Settings->General Settings->Grammar->Alternative dictionary**.
3. Edit word list (separate it with comma)
4. Click Save Grammar Settings

Amend default dictionary:
-----------------
There is built in dictionary, however to add additional words here is a bash script to rearrange dictionary.
To do this - append new word to **src/main/resources/dict/english.0**, run **reprocess_dict.sh** after that copy **src/main/resources/dict/english.1** with new word and in correct format to **src/main/resources/dict/english.0**.
